

I Know Where You Were Last Summer (and I don't work for the NSA)

or 

All your bikes journeys are belong to us.



--

In this article, I'm going to show how a *publicly available* dataset of bicycle journey data contains enough information to track the movements of individual cyclists across London, for a six month period a couple of years ago. I'm also going to explore how this dataset could be linked with other datasets to identify the actual people who made each of these journeys...

---

According to X, if you know the district where someone lives, and the district where they work, then you can uniquely identify that person. So it may surprise you to learn that there is a publicly available record of bike journeys for London's bike hire scheme, a record that includes customer data, as well as the location and date/time for where each journey started and ended. The public dataset, made available by TFL, currently covers a period of six months between 2011 and 2012. 

What are the consequences of this? It means that someone with access to the data (i.e. anyone) can extract and analyse the journeys made by individuals within London during that time period ... *** and with a little effort, it's possible to find the actual people who have made the journeys.*** 

To show what's possible with this "pseudonymized" data, I built an interactive map to vizualize a handful of randomly selected profiles. The purpose of this article is to expose the risks that come with some kinds of open data, but I've held off from actually trying to find the people behind the data ...  

So here's a map of journeys made by one particular person, selected because they are one of the top users of a bike hire station near to where I work:

[Crinan map one]

The size of the lines corresponds to the number of journeys made; the size of the circle represents the number of different destinations that the cyclist has travelled to from that particular station. Blue lines mean there have been journeys in both directions, while orange (with arrows) means journeys were one-way only.

!! Note: ... if you think you might be this person, and you're unhappy having your personal journey data here, please contact me and I will remove the map. Then contact TFL and tell them to remove customer record numbers from the data.

What can we tell about this person? First impressions suggests that they probably live near Limehouse, work in Kings Cross, and have friends or family in the Bethnal Green / Mile End areas of London. This story is confirmed if we filter down to journeys made between 4.00am and 10.00am:



Here, we can see that person X often makes morning journeys to Kings Cross either from the Limehouse area, or on some occasions from the Bethnal Green area. Applying a similar filter for the afternoon / evening shows return journeys, so the commuting hypothesis is looking stronger.

Here's another profile, for a different Boris Bike user:


In this case, 









Article says just need two locations to uniquely identify a person. 

Public boris bike journeys include home and work locations for individuals, as well as every other journey you've made.

Here's an example of a personal fingerprint left in the bike journey record:

[disclaimer: if this is you, and you're unhappy - tell TFL then tell me.]

(Crinan picture)[Crinan link]

So what can you tell from this fingerprint?

Well to start with, it's pretty easy to work out that this person lives somewhere near Stepney station, and works near Crinan Street in Kings Cross.

(Crinan commute to) morning
(Crinan commute home) evening

What else? Well it looks like person X knows someone in the Shoreditch (???) area. Girlfriend or boyfriend perhaps?

(Dog leg picture)

Great. What else?  




